# ipm_for_parasites

This repository contains the code and data necessary for reproducing all of the results found in the host-parasite IPM manuscript.

To rerun all of the analyses, `cd` into the `code` directory and type 

```Rscript run_all.R```

The full analysis takes
between 20 and 30 minutes, depending on your computer. All of the results are stored in the `results/` folder which comprises
various different graphs, csv files, and rds objects used in the IPM analysis. A more detailed description of each of the
folders is given below. 

`code/`: Contains R scripts and functions for running the host-parasite IPM analysis
  - `IPM_functions_for_R.R`: Contains various documented functions used to build and analyze the host-paraiste IPM
  - `eviction_functions.R`: R script provided by Williams, Miller, and Ellner (2012, Ecology) for exploring the effects of eviction on IPM predictions
  - `ipm_vital_rate_parameter_analysis.R`: Fits models and performs model comparison to determine the vital rate function parameters used for the Bd-Rana muscosa IPM. This script saves the parameters in a RDS file for later use.
  - `ipm_bd_analysis_for_manuscript.R`: Performs the density-independent IPM analysis. Builds the IPM, calculates stable distributions, sensitivity, growth rate etc.
  - `lower_level_sensitivity_analysis.R`: Accounts for the approximate uncertainty in the vital parameters and determines the growth rate and elasticity for the host-parasite IPM while accounting for this uncertainty
  - `transmission_simulation.R`: Performs the density-dependent transmission IPM simulation
  - `transmission_figures.R`: Plots the results from the density dependent simulation
  - `trajectories_plot.R`: Plots individual-level Bd trajectories from the temperature experiment. 

`results/`: Folder contains all of the plots and data generated by the scripts described above

`data/`:
  - `archival/`
    - `TempExp.csv`: The original data file for the Bd-Rana muscosa temperature experiment
  - `formatted/`
    - `converted_temp_data.csv`: The reformatted temperature data used in the IPM analysis. This is the data file that was used in all of the R scripts
    - `convert_temperature_data.py`: Python script for converting `../archival/TempExp.csv` to `converted_temp_data.csv`
